Proposal


1. TEAM MEMBERS


Stephani Michel        
michels126@csu.fullerton.edu


Heriberto Juache        
h.juache@csu.fullerton.edu


Shane Wilson                
swilson2@csu.fullerton.edu


2.OVERVIEW OF PROJECT IDEA


For our project we have moved from Snake to Tic-Tac-Toe. We are going to be modifying the classic and simple game with new features to give it some color. We will be adding new music and graphics as well. 


3. PROJECT GOALS


The goals for our project are quite simple. We will be changing the existing music and the existing graphics and be adding new ones that are more visually appealing. We will be keeping track of the players and their score if they continue to play.  We will also be adding a timer to keep the game to a maximum of 30 seconds. The game has a current board of a 3x3 and we will be expanding our board to a 5x5, not as a default but as another option. 


4. RESOURCES
For our project we have found source with an MIT License as well as an Asset License on github that belongs to Chris Kempson.  His code is found at the link below.  
https://github.com/chriskempson/cpp-tic-tac-toe
Using his code, we will be editing it in order to make the changes that we want such as the music, the graphics, and keeping track of the player












5. TEAM RESPONSIBILITIES
        Each team member has been given one of the three crucial tasks, setting a timer, changing the font, and keeping/creating a scoreboard. 


	Heriberto (Timer)
	

	 After music, he will responsible for determining how to set the timer for 30 seconds so that the game doesn’t drag on. He will also in charge of getting which player goes first.  New sounds will be used for our game which include the sounds made when a game is won, a draw and for each time a symbol is placed. (if time allows, one of our least priorities)
	

	

	

	

	

	

	

	Stephani (Change Font)
	

	 In charge of changing the font of the text that appears in the beginning of the game prompting the players to press enter as
	

	well as the font that displays the words tic tac toe. She is also in charge of getting the game to prompt the players to enter their name in order to display who the winner is.
	

	 
	

	

	

	

	

	Shane (Score Board)
	

	 He is in charge of creating the new symbols for the game. We will have other symbols than the X and O that are commonly used. A crucial step will be having a scoreboard in order to keep track of the winner.